All right.
So now we are in the first
thing that we need to work on.
Now first thing we're going to be focusing
on working on because like we don't
have enough time for your to do your
outline for your brag documents.
And your branding database, but you take
that, you can make that as a template.
I also have a template for
your resume as well attached to that,
here's the most difficult yes yet
most simple
part of getting your getting ready for
a job.
Your resume is a powerful tool that serves
as a concise summary of your your skills,
expertise and achievements right.
This is gonna be the first thing that
the robot is gonna see you the AI is
gonna see, HR is going to see
the developers are going to see it's going
to be the fang pass out around
a table everything right?
So this is very important.
The purpose of these purpose
primary purpose is to
provide a snapshot a professional history,
or
how that professional history correlates
with the industry trying to break into.
It's very important to remember
when you're looking at your job,
your job history and seeing where can I,
even though it's not technical,
where can I pull the technical
components and technical parts out?
That's very important, right?
When I was first interviewing and
I was like.
There's nothing about my jobs or
my industry or
anything like that that could
help me become a technologist.
I was like, this is going to suck.
Then I started learning more
about tech and learning and
doing this one on one correlation.
My military experience had lots of things
that helped me become a technologist.
Lots of, my degree in criminal justice,
lots of things to help me with technology,
understanding patterns, right,
that's a very important thing in criminal
justice and forensics, right,
understanding, picking up the clues and
being able to put those together,
that's very important.
Have you ever debug code that isn't yours?
It is the exact same thing as
trying to solve a murder loop
the same thing except there's
no bad guys at the end.
But that I mean, the one on one
correlation was there and I was like, wow,
I can I can do this because
I've done that part.
So this part, probably a little less
stress, except I'm using semi-colon,
everything goes bye-bye, but
that's what you want to do.
You wanna have it as your primary purpose,
as a snapshot of your professional history
and how it correlates with
where you want to go.
Alright, the structure of your resume.
Typically it is structured as
a format of sections, right?
So you have your contact information,
professional summary or objective,
work experience, education,
skills, achievements, and awards.
These are the core parts of your,
of every resume.
Now they don't have to be in that order
the two that has to be mandatory up top
should be your professional summary
should be your contact information.
Those two should be up top.
Now with your professional summary
that is also a place you should
be putting the key words for the resume or
for the job in there as well.
You need to make sure you write your
professional summary in a manner where
keywords are interchangeable.
Right.
So now that we've done that, if you
look at the if you look at the template
that if you could pull it up,
that would be fine as well.
I don't need it.
I actually know this part.
I don't like the back of my head
because I've yelled at more than enough
people about this.
You go to README, the README.md,
there should be your resume at the bottom,
and your resources.
It's a template.
You can export it as markdown, HTML, PDF.
You can edit it however you want to.
So as you see, the top.
Professional summary, contact information.
That's the only two places you should
have your contact information, right?
I mean, the only place you should have it,
professional summary.
Professional summary is where
you should be interchanging
the keywords based upon what's in a job.
Make sure your professional
summary actually matches.
Actually it's worded in a manner where you
can switch out keywords as needed, right?
So now we get into that
work experience background.
I always put the work experience first
cuz that's usually the hardest part,
especially if you're a non traditional
programmer coming from like
an entrepreneur science background or
bootcamp or self taught.
That's the part where you tend to like
need to focus on how do I correlate
my current my job paths for
where I want to go to say this is
why I should be able to do this.
So I always put that first.
Unless I'm coming from
a CS degree background,
then I put education first, right?
Yes?
>> How about writing accomplishments and
positions?
Is it okay if I have 10 lines or should I,
in the last two positions, is that okay?
>> 10 lines of accomplishments
in the last two positions?
>> Yeah.
>> I try to keep it up to like
three have between three to five.
But if you don't if you're lighten other
ones by all means, you know go for broke.
>> Another question.
In the context of the job hunt is
finding your targets before you do your
reconnaissance like job titles
are a meaningless phrase of strings.
So how do you find things
that are appropriate for you
>> well if I'm on LinkedIn always looking
for say you you've never
had a job in tech.
I am going to look for entry level
to less than a year of experience
I'm going to first focus
on the experience.
Then I'm gonna focus on the skills
that are strong, your strongest and
you said Python.
So I'm gonna look for entry level
two years of experience with Python.
I know that for
a fact you've said already,
you're starting your undergraduate career.
So I know you've been to college at this.
So they may be looking for
college degree but also maybe looking for
equivalent work.
So I'm going to look for
them to explicitly say college degree or
equivalent experience, right?
Because you actually gain your experience
of writing Python while in college.
So if your degree may not match computer
science, I still know that you have like
an analytical mathematics based degree,
right?
So these are like the three
things I'm looking for
before I'm even going into anything
else about this company, right.
So like that's how I that's
how I break it down.
I'm always looking for the you know
like say it's like forensics right.
It's like looking at the clues of
like like you know a crime scene like
you know so
you have to look at your strengths.
So first, I guess that's how I look at
it first, first look at your strengths.
And then do your reconnaissance
based upon your strengths, right?
Like so
because it said that's what I gather.
Speaking to you, I think we spoke your
intro was maybe five minutes long and
under five minutes like 3040 seconds long,
right?
But just based upon those 3040 seconds.
That's how I would look for a job for you.
That's where I would start, right?
And then as I would go deeper,
that's why I was like,
I really wanna get a one-on-one
with this gentleman so
that way I can see exactly
where he needs to go.
And how he needs to search and
how to be strategic for that, right?
So that's just a quick overview
of how I would do that.